Git is a version control system for tracking changes in source code files and it can be used to keep track of changes in any set of files.
As a distributed revision control system it is aimed at data integrity, support for distributed and non-linear workflows.


version control/source control is the management of changes to documents, computer programs.
Changes are usually identified by a number or letter code, termed the "version number", "version level". For example, an initial set of files is "version 1". When the first change is made, the resulting set is "version 2", and so on. 
Each version is associated with a timestamp and the person making the change. 
version can be compared, restored, and with some types of files, merged.



These are common Git commands used in various situations:

start a working area (see also: git help tutorial)
   1. clone      Clone a repository into a new directory
   2. init       Create an empty Git repository or reinitialize an existing one

work on the current change (see also: git help everyday)
   3. add        Add file contents to the index
   4. mv         Move or rename a file, a directory, or a symlink
   5. reset      Reset current HEAD to the specified state
   6. rm         Remove files from the working tree and from the index

examine the history and state (see also: git help revisions)
   7. bisect     Use binary search to find the commit that introduced a bug
   8. grep       Print lines matching a pattern
   9. log        Show commit logs
   10. show       Show various types of objects
   11. status     Show the working tree status -- commit,diff,blame.

grow, mark and tweak your common history
   12. branch     List, create, or delete branches
   13. checkout   Switch branches or restore working tree files
   14. commit     Record changes to the repository
   15. diff       Show changes between commits, commit and working tree, etc
   16. merge      Join two or more development histories together
   17. rebase     Reapply commits on top of another base tip
   18. tag        Create, list, delete or verify a tag object signed with GPG

collaborate (see also: git help workflows)
   19. fetch      Download objects and refs from another repository
   20. pull       Fetch from and integrate with another repository or a local branch
   21. push       Update remote refs along with associated objects
   
   
   
   
   1. add        Add file contents to the index
   2. bisect     Find by binary search the change that introduced a bug
   3. branch     List, create, or delete branches
   4. checkout   Checkout a branch or paths to the working tree
   5. clone      Clone a repository into a new directory
   6. commit     Record changes to the repository
   7. diff       Show changes between commits, commit and working tree, etc
   8. fetch      Download objects and refs from another repository
   9. grep       Print lines matching a pattern
   10. init       Create an empty Git repository or reinitialize an existing one
   11. log        Show commit logs
   12. merge      Join two or more development histories together
   13. mv         Move or rename a file, a directory, or a symlink
   14. pull       Fetch from and merge with another repository or a local branch
   15. push       Update remote refs along with associated objects
   16. rebase     Forward-port local commits to the updated upstream head
   17. reset      Reset current HEAD to the specified state
   18. rm         Remove files from the working tree and from the index
   19. show       Show various types of objects
   20. status     Show the working tree status
   21. tag        Create, list, delete or verify a tag object signed with GPG


'git help -a' and 'git help -g' list available subcommands and some
concept guides. See 'git help <command>' or 'git help <concept>'
to read about a specific subcommand or concept.

https://youte.be/cEFIFZDysZA

git blame file
git revert branch
git apply patch.diff
git am -3 pathc.mbox

echo "# temp" >> README.md
git init
git add README.md
git commit -m "first commit"
git remote add origin https://github.com/sreenivasd/temp.git
git push -u origin master
